hey everybody it's brian and in this
video we're going to talk about
determining the operating system both at
compile time
and at run time they don't really talk
about this very much in depth in most
classes and i'm always mystified by this
because
cute runs anywhere and there are times
where well
you'll need to run different code
depending on what operating system
you're on so let's dive in and take a
look all right our first stop here is
going to be
the cute global or the global
declarations and this gets
really scary when you look at it here so
what's really happening
is this is the global this is everything
that's available to every q
application and if you start scrolling
down not a lot of this really makes a
lot of sense when you look at it
but we're going to keep going down and
down until you see cue underscore os
and then ah you start seeing familiar
names android
bsd4 ios linux that's right this is all
built in for example i'm on linux so if
i click this it says it's defined on
linux
that's right these are preprocessor
directives you get
at compile time so for example if i say
qos
mac you'll see it's deprecated and you
should not use this
this is where it gets a little confusing
there's a mac and a mac os
which is defined on mac os but mac is
something you shouldn't use
short version you're going to have to
dig through the documentation to figure
out your specific use case but anything
that starts with q
underscore os is available for you to
try to use
now i say try and here's why
for example if you're on mac os win64 is
not going to be defined
because it's only defined on 64-bit
versions of windows
you kind of get what's going on here so
let's take a look at some code
we've got our little compile time
function here and i'm going to do one
typing it and then the rest i'm just
gonna probably copy and paste just to
save time
so we're gonna say if def which is short
for if defined
and then we want q underscore os
and you see right there is q underscore
os linux because
i'm on linux but unix is also declared
that's why you gotta be a little bit
careful about what you're doing
and then we're gonna go ahead and do an
and f
and from there it becomes ridiculously
simple i'm going to say
q info
hello from linux it's
really that simple and you can just take
this
and copy and paste it and let's just
jump back
in and see what we're looking for here
so all right so
qos windows which is a synonym for qos
win to find all supported versions of
windows and you can also get a 32 or 64
bit
so let's just grab this i'm going to do
the old copy and paste
maybe if it lets me
lit back to our virtual machine
and put it in there notice how it's
automatically grayed out
because it's not defined we're saying if
defined and this is not defined because
i'm on a linux machine
if i was on windows you'd see the polar
opposite where this would be highlighted
and this would be grayed out
you can actually take this to some
extreme if you really wanted to and i'm
just going to
do the magic of copy and paste here
maybe it's time for a new mouse this
thing doesn't want to agree with me here
there we go
so i've kind of done something here that
is well a monstrosity but you'll see
this out in the real world
you have if defined mac os this is a mac
linux windows and you can see because
i'm on linux the other parts are grayed
out they just simply won't run
we can save and run this and see exactly
what happens because i'm on linux it's
going to simply say
this is linux now if you were to take
that same code and run it on say a mac
it'll say this is mac
if you take that same code and run it on
windows it'll say this is windows but
then it'll tell you whether it's 32 or
64 bit
all right sometimes you need a little
bit more info and that's where the qsys
cifo class comes in
the qsincifo class provides information
about the system i love that description
because this class does
exactly what it says it does if we
scroll down
you can see there are static public
members that's right static you don't
even have to create an instance of this
i will just for demonstration but you
don't have to but you can get like the
boot unique id the build api cpu
architecture
current cpu architecture kernel type
kernel version host name
and i'm kind of flying through these
most of these you won't actually ever
really need
but this is what i love about their
documentation if you're ever curious
what something is for example build abi
it has more information than you'll
probably ever need to know unless you're
really deep diving into this for some
unknown reason
so how does this work
well let's take a look i'm going to type
out a little bit and then i'm just going
to copy and paste just to save some time
so i'm going to say cue
sysinfo again you don't have to make an
instance but i'm going to
let's call this info and i'm going to
say cue
info let's go ahead and let's print out
the
pretty product
name which is basically just a human
readable version this is something you
put in like an about box or something
like that
and i'm gonna say info dot free product
name again
you can do this using the static you
don't have to make an instance
but it just works so one thing you'll
notice right off the bat is this is at
run time we're not using the
preprocessor symbols so let's go ahead
and run this and see what it says
tada this is linux and the pretty
product name is linux mint 20.
yes this is pretty awesome it just works
you don't have to really do any sort of
mysticism or api calls or figure out
some black magic
incantation at three in the morning so
let's just
copy and paste this out just to save a
smidge of time we're gonna get the
pretty product name the product type
version machine host name if you ever
need that this is a super simple way of
getting it
machine unique id again if you ever need
it it's
right there current cpu architecture and
the build cpu architecture
and then the build api let's go ahead
and save run
again this is probably way more
information than you'll ever need about
your system for most
applications but it's there if you need
it so on this virtual machine this is
linux the printed product name is
linux met20 product type linux mint
product version 20. you guessed it
the pretty product name is pretty much
just a beautified version of type and
version
there's my machine hostname you can see
this is on virtualbox
and the unique id in case i ever need
that
current cpu architecture is x 86 64. so
is the
build and the build abi is x86 64
little idion-lp 64. and if you have no
idea what that means
of course you can dive into the help
system and read all about it
i hope you enjoyed this video you can
find the source code out on github.com
if you need additional help myself and
thousands of other developers are
hanging out in the
voidrealms facebook group this is a
large group with lots of developers and
we talk about everything technology
related not just the technology that you
just watched
and if you want official training i do
develop courses out on udemy.com
this is official classroom style
training if you go out there and the
course you're looking for is just simply
not there
drop me a note i'm either working on it
or i will actually develop it
i will put a link down below for all
three of those and as always
help me help you smash that like and
subscribe button
the more popular these videos become the
more i'll create and publish out on
youtube
thank you for watching